{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red251\green0\blue7;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red38\green38\blue38;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c12195\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c99985\c0;
\cssrgb\c20022\c20022\c19997;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c99926\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww21600\viewh14080\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 This code will calculate the sulfur content at sulfide saturation (SCSS) values for a given set of melt compositions and a specified pressure using the O\'92Neill (2019) model.\
\
Simply run the code multiple times on the same input file if you wish to calculate the SCSS at different pressure intervals for a given set of melt compositions.\
\
The code is written in python and can be used from the command terminal on a Mac.\
\
If you do not have the latest version of the python packages installed, run the following line of code in terminal before using the SCSS model -  \cb2 \'91
\f1 \cf3 \cb4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
python -m pip install --user numpy scipy matplotlib ipython jupyter pandas sympy nose\cf5 \cb2 \'92 \cf6 \cb7 (remove the apostrophe\'92s when copying)
\f0 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
Instructions for use:\
\
1. Firstly you need to enter the compositions of the melts you would like to model the SCSS of in the input.csv file. You can either keep this names as input.csv or change it to a name of your choice. The code will allow you to specify the name of the input file when it is run, hence you can have multiple input files and select between them. However, this file must be saved as a \'91.csv\'92 file. You can enter as many rows of data as you like, however always leave the major element labels (i.e., SiO2, Na2O etc.) in the very first row, or the code will to function.\
\
2.\
\
You will ned to set the working directory. To do this on a Mac, simply type \'91cd\'92 in Terminal and then drag and drop the SCSS Model folder into Terminal. Hit enter.\
This should change the working directory - i.e., Terminal will \'91look\'92 for files in this folder.\
\
3.\
\
Now type \'91python scssmodel.py\'92 and hit enter.\
\
4. \
\
You will then be asked to specify an input file.  If you simply hit enter, the default input.csv file. However, if you named your input file slightly different then you can type in the name here. You do not need to type the \'91.csv\'92 extension, just the file name. Hit enter.\
\
5. \
\
You will then be asked to specify a pressure in GPa, hit return after entering a pressure.\
\
6.\
\
 The program will then ask you if you want to name the output file with the SCSS values, if you hit enter without entering a name then output.csv will be used as default.\
\
7.\
\
 You will then be given the option to output the modelled melt temperatures in a separate file. If you select yes, you can name the file, otherwise temperatures.csv will be used as default.\
\
\
All SCSS values are in ppm and all temperatures are in degrees centigrade.\
\
Just remember that if you re-run the code and do not change the file names then the previous file with the same name will be overwritten. Hence, it is recommended that the output data is copied and pasted into an appropriate spreadsheet.}